B
o
y
s
'
I
n
t
e
r
h
i
g
h
V
o
l
e
y
b
a
l
T
o
u
r
n
a
m
e
n
t
P
r
e
l
i
m
n
a
r
i
e
s
B
r
a
c
k
e
t
Haikyuu !!
I take two deep breaths and calm my heart
I take a step with my left foot to break the silence
Get your nervousness in check and reign in your mind
You have it in you
You can cast out the demons
Fate? Random chance? Questions? Answers? It's all one
This is the sign
Oh, yeah!
The world is opening to us
We pass the door,
look straight ahead, and never look back
Oh, yeah!
I put my hand to my chest
I can feel the proof that I exist
It is my beating heart
Episode Twenty-five:
The Third Day
Shiratorizawa!
Unstoppable Force
Go, go, go, go, Seijou!
Rule the Court
Attack! Attack, attack, attack, attack, Seijou!
Shiratorizawa!
Get ready, because this is the day
I humiliate you, my dear little Ushiwaka.
Don't call me that, Oikawa.
Aoba Jousai               Shiratorizawa
I'm starving!
Let's hit the school shop.
Hinata, let's eat.
Right. Come to think of it,
I heard you came close yesterday.
Our team also lost in the third round last week.
The guys who beat us ended up going to nationals.
What's wrong? Aren't you hungry?
Bathroom.
The very first day Hinata and Kageyama came to practice,
Daichi said we'd go to spring nationals.
I forget, is the first qualifying round for that in August?
He said we'd be going there one more time.
There's no time to wallow in defeat.
I'm thinking now would be a good time to retire.
Ever since third-years could take part in the spring tournament,
I've wanted us to survive the elimination and go to Tokyo to play in it.
But seeing the first and second-years in action
got me thinking it would be better to surrender the team to them sooner than later.
It would be better for the team to have it restructured around them,
the guys who show such promise—
Daichi, is that what you really want?
I know that being captain puts you in a position of responsibility,
but I don't think you need to remove yourself entirely.
If that was always your plan, I won't complain.
Otherwise, you should play it out the way you want to.
I'm staying on, just as I said I would!
I'll only consider leaving if and when
the younger members ask me to leave!
With or without you two!
But I told you I was staying on yesterday!
I'm not going to college anyway.
If the younger members asked me to leave, I'd take it hard.
I...
I still want to play too, you know!
I still want to play volleyball with you guys!
Mr. Takeda?
Might we have a word regarding the volleyball team?
Sure.
So you got to play in a match, huh?
How'd you like it?
Did you have fun, Tadashi?
No.
No!
I thought so.
You tense up and can't move the way you want to.
The ball won't fly right.
There's nothing fun about that.
Up until junior high, I played volleyball thinking it was a fun sort of thing to do with my friends.
That's all it was to me.
But it's nothing like that.
It's different.
I can't do what they do.
I want full control of my body!
I want to control the ball!
I want to play as equals against good players!
"To truly enjoy playing sports, you need to be strong."
Coach Ukai...
The older one, I mean.
That's what he used to say to me.
Needless to say, I wasn't the ace, and I wasn't a starter.
Practicing was hard, and there were times I felt like quitting.
But...
When I nailed a service ace for the first time in a real match, it finally clicked.
Hey, this is the play I've practiced so long for.
That's when I decided that I would buckle down and practice hard,
just to experience this one match, point, and moment all over again.
Okay, let's get started!
There isn't much time until the next match.
Tsukki, let's eat!
Yamaguchi, you're annoying.
Sorry, Tsukki!
Tsukki!
Faculty Office
Both Sugawara and Sawamura gave me advance notice
they would be staying on the team past the interhigh despite their plans to go to college.
And in Sugawara's case...
Excuse me.
Sugawara.
I understand how you feel,
but you really should focus on your studies.
I honestly don't think you have anything to gain by staying on the team.
I don't play volleyball because there's something to gain, sir.
Sugawara isn't in the starting lineup for matches, is that correct?
Y-Yes.
He doesn't have much hope for a sports scholarship either.
Both boys get excellent grades, but the question is can they maintain those grades?
Would you please speak to the third-years?
Be sure to address their futures rather than their current emotional state.
Don't let them use what an adult told them as an excuse.
I bet...
What's up?
I'll bet they're feeling lousy.
I gave them the morning and afternoon off.
It hasn't even been a day yet.
Aoba Jousai sure was tough.
They were tough. Really tough.
We played well this time around,
but who knows if we'll put up that good of a fight the next time we play them.
Seijou will undoubtedly come at us again with the same consistent force.
Did you see them during their timeouts?
Yeah.
It was mainly player-only meetings.
Their coaches kept watch from the background.
I'm sure they offered a few helpful words, of course.
Their players are always thinking and adapting to every situation within the match.
No matter what projectile weapon we bring out, they always combat it, calm and efficient.
Whatever we did, they just refused to fall apart.
It was really stressful.
The only team capable of prying the points away from a carefully orchestrated powerhouse like Seijou...
has to be Shiratorizawa.
Unstoppable Force
All the practicing and strategizing we've done,
and the experience we have,
is being torn apart by sheer brute force.
Not like it matters how you win, really.
Whoever lets the ball touch the ground loses.
That's all that matters.
Haikyuu !!
If you were afflicted with an injury that could
jeopardize your future if it wasn't allowed to heal,
yet you still wanted to play for the only reason that
you could never play again, I would have to stop you.
Certain things must never be acted upon during an emotional time.
But if it's something you can challenge yourselves to do many times, I believe that gives you options.
Obviously, the possibility of failing
your exams is not to be taken lightly.
Overcoming obstacles requires the
appropriate effort, patience, and sacrifice.
The time you spend on your extracurricular activities
is time that the other students will spend studying and working for the future.
This will most definitely create a disparity.
One day, you may regret that disparity deeply.
Please think it over and choose.
Choose the option you won't regret five or ten years from now.
Squat lower.
Right.
The finals will be wrapping up by now.
Yeah.
The winners advance to nationals.
The winners get to play lots of matches.
Yeah.
Goddammit!
Shit.
You shit!
I wanna win.
I will never apologize again.
I will never make a set I need to apologize for...
ever again!
Only the strong...
...get to stay on the court.
There's no time.
There's no time to stand still!
But you have to eat your lunch.
Uh...
Shimizu?!
And try not to scream so much.
I heard you all the way from the clubroom.
Y-You...
Kiyoko!
Kiyoko, you look lovely today.
I crossed the seven seas to come see you!
We'll faithfully follow you for life!
Don't hurt yourselves.
Aren't we supposed to have today off?
Then explain what you guys are doing here.
Afternoon!
Hello.
Now all we need are the third-years.
But we didn't even have practice scheduled for today.
Hey, hey, hey!
You know the third-years would never retire!
Huh? What do you mean?
No way.
The third-years are staying on the team, right?!
They're taking part in the spring tournament, aren't they?!
Crap. Hurry!
That's right.
They still are.
You're late!
Let's go to spring nationals!
All right!
Here I am, at the school.
I wonder if any crazy bastards have shown up?
Nice spike!
Afternoon, sir!
Why, you guys are doing fine.
Please coach us once again!
Thank you!
We lost in a match to determine the superior team.
Seijou was tough.
We were inferior to them.
That's the current result—the reality.
So, the winner of today's interhigh prelims final...
was...
Shiratorizawa.
Shiratorizawa                Aoba Jousai
Seijou...
...lost?
There's a team that beats Seijou within our own prefecture.
We have to be stronger.
I'm sure you already know our next objective.
Spring nationals.
Obviously, this will be the final match for the third-years.
The place where the Little Giant went!
Okay, now let's have a word of motivation from your captain.
It's the venue Karasuno has only been to once.
The Orange Court in Tokyo!
And we're going there once again!
All right!
Take five!
Yessir!
Kageyama.
We're going to win this time.
You and me and all of us!
Right.
Okay, break time's over!
Yessir!
A massive, massive wall stands
in front of me, blocking my way.
Time for spike practice!
Yessir!
Here goes!
The view on the other side is something I'll never be able to see alone.
Next! Hinata!
I'm ready!
Send it my way!
That's the view from the summit.
We run laps convinced that we will all make it
We suffer through the nights for a vision we chose on a whim
If you really want fairness then we'd all look basically the same
We will suffer through more nights for a vision instead of standing still
Our passion burns until the morning and we advance with closed eyes
I haven't forgotten you despite this passion
I run with only my headlight for guidance
No matter what awaits me I will laugh in this body I was born in
Is there someone running with your taillight for guidance?
What you call determination just means bunching up
Is someone going to follow up on all these impressions?
Will vowing to never falter let me laugh again?
Fly